Michelin star is the ultimate hallmark of culinary excellence. Michelin stars are awarded to restaurants judged to 
be of a particularly high standard. Eateries that make the grade can be awarded one, two, or three stars, and the accolade
 is much-coveted by chefs around the world. The star system was first introduced in 1926, with a single star denoting “a 
 very good restaurant”. The second and third stars were added in 1933, with two stars meaning "excellent cooking that is 
 worth a detour", and three stars "exceptional cuisine that is worth a special journey".The Michelin Guide has been 
 published annually since 1900 and was originally intended to help drivers find mechanics, hotels, and of course, good 
 restaurants, on their travels. In the years that followed, the popularity of the scheme spread overseas, with 
 guides published for major cities around the world. The company also enlisted the help of the legendary Michelin I
 nspectors, and developed the rigorous system of testing that has made the Michelin Guide the fine-dining bible it is today.
 Unlike other rating systems, Michelin stars are not based on customer reviews, but on undercover inspections by anonymous 
 food experts known as the Michelin Inspectors. Inspectors remain anonymous to avoid being given preferential treatment and 
 undergo official Michelin Guide training in France. They are not allowed to speak to the press, but it is generally thought 
 that most will have at least some experience in the restaurant business. They are even encouraged not even to tell their 
 friends and family about what they do! Anyone hoping to become a Michelin Inspector must be passionate and knowledgeable about 
 food, with good attention to detail, and the ability to blend in with ordinary customers. Most are veterans of the hospitality
  industry and are required to fill in a comprehensive report following their visit. The judging criteria is the same for each 
  restaurant, focusing on the quality of the ingredients, cooking techniques and, most importantly, taste. Michelin stars are 
  awarded solely on the standard of cuisine, so inspectors will not consider things like restaurant decor or ambience when 
  awarding stars, although the comfort and quality is rated from 1 to 5 using a crossed fork and spoon symbol.
Restaurant owners are not told when the inspection will take place, and an inspector may return around 3 to 6 times before reporting 
back to their fellow inspectors, who then come to a joint decision about whether or not to award stars. A restaurant can be rated 
from 0-3 stars, and there is also a ‘Bib Gourmand’ award for restaurants offering quality food at a reasonable price.
Michelin stars are awarded to restaurants, rather than to individual chefs, so chefs who run more than one establishment can hold 
more than three stars. The record for most Michelin stars ever belonged to the late Joël Robuchon, who once held an impressive 32 
Michelin stars in total. Most restaurants, however, will not meet Michelin standards, and the majority of restaurants inspected are awarded zero stars.
Those who do make the grade are reinspected frequently and can lose their stars if the inspectors feel that standards have slipped. 
Even the most well-known chefs can fall foul of the Michelin inspectors' strict standards. Gordon Ramsay was reportedly reduced to 
tears when his New York restaurant was stripped of its stars, saying it was like ‘losing a girlfriend’. Restaurants can try to win 
back lost stars in the following years’ Guide, but as the exact judging criteria is not known this can sometimes be a difficult task.
‘High quality cooking, worth a stop!’, according to the current Michelin Guide. One Michelin star may be the lowest award, 
but it is still a high accolade and may denote a new cooking talent who could be one to watch in future. Only a tiny 
proportion of restaurants worldwide hold even one star - the city with the most is currently Tokyo, with 161 restaurants 
boasting one Michelin star out of the tens of thousands of across the city. Notable establishments with one Michelin star 
include Hawker Chan, a Singaporean hawker stall that was recognised in 2016 for its delicious street food. The gourmet on 
a budget can purchase Hawker Chan’s award-winning soya chicken and noodles for around two US dollars.
