AI has become a catchall term for applications that perform complex tasks that once required human input, such as 
communicating with customers online or playing chess. The term is often used interchangeably with its subfields, 
which include machine learning (ML) and deep learning. There are differences, however. For example, machine learning 
is focused on building systems that learn or improve their performance based on the data they consume. It’s important 
to note that although all machine learning is AI, not all AI is machine learning. To get the full value from AI, many 
companies are making significant investments in data science teams. Data science combines statistics, computer science,
 and business knowledge to extract value from various data sources. Developers use artificial intelligence to more 
 efficiently perform tasks that are otherwise done manually, connect with customers, identify patterns, and solve 
 problems. To get started with AI, developers should have a background in mathematics and feel comfortable with algorithms.
When getting started with using artificial intelligence to build an application, it helps to start small. By building a 
relatively simple project, such as tic-tac-toe, for example, you’ll learn the basics of artificial intelligence. Learning 
by doing is a great way to level-up any skill, and artificial intelligence is no different. Once you’ve successfully 
completed one or more small-scale projects, there are no limits for where artificial intelligence can take you.
The central tenet of AI is to replicate—and then exceed—the way humans perceive and react to the world. It’s fast becoming 
the cornerstone of innovation. Powered by various forms of machine learning that recognize patterns in data to enable 
predictions, AI can add value to your business by Providing a more comprehensive understanding of the abundance of data available
Relying on predictions to automate excessively complex or mundane tasks AI technology is improving enterprise performance 
and productivity by automating processes or tasks that once required human power. AI can also make sense of data on a scale 
that no human ever could. That capability can return substantial business benefits. For example, Netflix uses machine 
learning to provide a level of personalization that helped the company grow its customer base by more than 25 percent.
Most companies have made data science a priority and are investing in it heavily. A 2021 McKinsey survey on AI discovered 
that companies reporting AI adoption in at least one function had increased to 56 percent, up from 50 percent a year earlier. 
In addition, 27 percent of respondents reported at least 5% of earnings could be attributable to AI, up from 22 percent a year earlier.
AI has value for most every function, business, and industry. It includes general and industry-specific applications such as
Using transactional and demographic data to predict how much certain customers will spend over the course of their relationship 
with a business (or customer lifetime value) Optimizing pricing based on customer behavior and preferences
Using image recognition to analyze X-ray images for signs of cancer Three factors are driving the development of AI across industries.
Affordable, high-performance computing capability is readily available. The abundance of commodity compute power in the cloud enables 
easy access to affordable, high-performance computing power. Before this development, the only computing environments available for AI 
were non-cloud-based and cost prohibitive. Large volumes of data are available for training. AI needs to be trained on lots of data 
to make the right predictions. Ease of data labeling and affordable storage and processing of structured and unstructured data is 
enabling more algorithm building and training. Applied AI delivers a competitive advantage. Enterprises are increasingly recognizing 
the competitive advantage of applying AI insights to business objectives and are making it a businesswide priority. For example, targeted 
recommendations provided by AI can help businesses make better decisions faster. Many of the features and capabilities of AI can lead to 
lower costs, reduced risks, faster time to market, and much more. There are multiple stages in developing and deploying machine learning 
models, including training and inferencing. AI training and inferencing refers to the process of experimenting with machine learning 
models to solve a problem. For example, a machine learning engineer may experiment with different candidate models for a computer 
vision problem, such as detecting bone fractures on X-ray images. To improve the accuracy of these models, the engineer would feed 
data to the models and tune the parameters until they meet a predefined threshold. These training needs, measured by model complexity, 
are growing exponentially every year. Infrastructure technologies key to AI training at scale include cluster networking, such as RDMA 
and InfiniBand, bare metal GPU compute, and high performance storage. There are numerous success stories that prove AI’s value. Organizations 
that add machine learning and cognitive interactions to traditional business processes and applications can greatly improve user experience 
and boost productivity. However, there are some stumbling blocks. Few companies have deployed AI at scale, for several reasons. 
For example, if they don’t use cloud computing, machine learning projects are often computationally expensive. They’re also complex 
to build and require expertise that’s in high demand but short supply. Knowing when and where to incorporate these projects, as well
 as when to turn to a third party, will help minimize these difficulties. The emergence of AI-powered solutions and tools means 
 that more companies can take advantage of AI at a lower cost and in less time. Ready-to-use AI refers to the solutions, tools, 
 and software that either have built-in AI capabilities or automate the process of algorithmic decision-making.
Ready-to-use AI includes self-repairing autonomous databases and premade models for image recognition and text analysis on various datasets.